# 2026-07-12

## Next

## Current

## Later

## Done

## Other


is che spec being validated in runtime? using schema?

i want to simplify the testing yml > code, this code could be way more generic


as-a-spec
  repo
  host (che)
  gitlab

  common pieces


  there are relevant actions, implemented as make, maybe action should be own thing, not in make


need to read about
  gomplate

that history completion on arrows is needed

consider linters:
  testify + adopt
  docs + adopt
  sec + adopt ?


take a throught look at the test code and find opportunityies to reduce amount of
  code, focus on repeated patterns, similar functions and code blocks and try
  to commonize it into reusable generic pieces. You can solve it by
  implementing own generic components, or use std or 3rd party libraries.

  let's use testify
  let's reduce amount of different testing code by implementing standards in a way fixtures and specs go through golang testing code.

  scope of the task: test code

take a look at documentation and prose in this repository. Let's rewrite it for an audience with high technical fluency. Remove redundant, obvious information. Make it concise, abrupt and terse.

scope: prose in markdown files, comments in the code.

ship that resume


each test spec in yml should :
- have full name of what is being tested in name (function or cmd)
- have test in the name  e.g. <what>.test.spec.yml

each pwd should start with testdata/ no exceptions

what can be PascalCased or camelCase


add to plan that repeated information should also be removed, only state information once.


need to rethink data model, it makes code too complex

if che had data store, git wouldn't be needed to clear broken links
